BASIC LEVEL

1. What command is used to get the IP addresses of all interfaces on a server? ifconfig
2. What is the purpose of "mv" command? ‘mv’ is used to rename/move a file to another location
3. Which command is used to create a new empty file? touch filename
4. Which command is used to display the contents of a directory? ls
5. Which command is used to display all the file names along with their types of the current directory? ls -l
6. Which command is used to clear the terminal? clear
7. What are daemons? Computer program that runs as a background process
8. Which command is used to move to the parent directory?cd ..
9. What does echo command do? ‘echo’ is used to display a string
10.How to display content of a file? cat filename
11. How to identify which shell you are using? echo “$SHELL”
12. How do you check if a particular service is running? #service httpd status
13.What is the command to run a program with elevated permissions? sudo
14.Which command is used to display the path of the current working directory? pwd
15. How to delete a directory forcefully? rm -rf directoryname
16.Which command is used to switch from superuser to normal user? su username or exit
17. How to switch to superuser (root) with elevated permissions? sudo
18.How to determine the type of a file? file filename

INTERMEDIATE LEVEL

1. What are the different modes when using VI editor? Entry and command mode
2. Which command is used to create multiple directories simultaneously? mkdir -p
3. What is LILO? Linux Loader is used to load Linux into memory.
4. How cd ~, cd / and cd - are different from each other? Cd~ changes to the previous directory, cd / takes you back to the root directory and cd - prints while performing 
   the same action as cd ..
5. What is a grep command? grep is used to search plain-text data within a file.
6. If we are in the directory X and we are running rmdir X being in that directory X. Will this command successfully remove the directory or not? No, you will have to exit 
   the directory inorder to delete it.
7. What are the contents of /usr/local? bin (local binaries), etc (host-specific system configuration for local binaries), games (local game binaries), include (local C header
   files), lib (local libraries), man (local online manuals), sbin (local system binaries), share (local architecture-independent hierarchy), src (local source code).
8. Which command is used to display the current username? whoami
9. What command is used to change your password? passwd username
10. How to find the difference in two configuration files? diff or vim command
11. How to find where a file is located in Linux? locate file
12. Which command shows the users that are logged in? w command
13. How to forcefully stop a process which is running in the background? kill pid
14. Which command is used to list the name of files starting from any particular alphabet or string? find. -name filename
15. How to move multiple files of the same extension to a different directory? mv dir1/*.{doc,pdf} dir2/
16. What command would you use to check how much memory is being used ? free
17. Which command is used to display the list of content in reverse order? rev or ls -r
18. What command is used to show how long it's been since the server was rebooted? last reboot
19. What command is used to change the ownership of a file? chown

ADVANCED LEVEL

1. How to see the list of mounted devices on a Linux system? findmnt
2. How to check disk usage in terms of kilobytes(K), megabytes(M) and gigabytes(G)? df -h
3. What is Swap Space?What is a typical size for a swap partition in Linux? Swap space is used when the amount of physical memory (RAM) is full. Inactive memory is moved to
   swap space. Typical size for a swap partition is twice the size of RAM if RAM is less than 2 GB else size of RAM + 2 GB.
4. How would you schedule a task in Linux? There are two ways to schedule a task in Linux
   Cron Daemon is responsible for running a lot of jobs at specific times and generally runs in the background.at scheduled times.
   ‘At’ at offers the ability to run a command/script at a specific time or at a fixed interval
5. How these commands would be working try and explain (files contain “hello” word) :
   grep -v -i hello file1.txt
   Output would be empty, this command prints everything except the word hello, since the file only contains hello, nothing is outputted.
   grep -i hello file2.txt
   This command prints lines with a matching pattern and highlights the pattern, so the output is hello.
   grep -A 2 hello file2.txt
   This command will print 2 lines after the matching pattern ‘hello’ is found in the file.
   grep -C 4 hello file1.txt
   This command is usually used to display the number of times a pattern is repeated within a file.
   grep -B 3 hello file1.txt
   This command is used to display 3 lines before the word hello appears in file1.txt
   ps -ef | more
   This command is used to display the process id of each process
   awk '{print $2,$5;}' employee.txt
   This command is used to print only certain columns (2 and 5 in this case) considering this file only had ‘hello’ in it, nothing is printed as an output.
6. What is the export command used for?(Give Example) It is used to ensure the environment variables and functions are passed on to child processes. For example, ‘export’
   displays all exported variables and ‘export -p’ displays exported variables on the current shell.
7. Explain the redirection operator? Redirection is a feature in Linux such that when executing a command, you can change the standard input/output devices. There are two
   kinds of redirection, the output redirection and input redirection. The ‘>’ symbol is used for output redirection while ‘<’ is used for input redirection.
8. Which command is used to review boot messages? dmesg
9. Which command is used to change the permissions of a file?Explain its usage? chmod octal file, this command is used to change permissions of a file to read, write and/or
   execute. Octal digits are assigned to each permission 4 for read, 2 for write and 1 for execute.
10. Which command would you use to create a file system on a new hard drive? mkfs: extn4
11. How to compress files in Linux? There are 5 commands to compress files in Linux, namely, tar, zip, gzip, bzip2, xz
12. Which file is used to automatically mount file systems on boot? File systems listed in the /etc/fstab file are automatically mounted whenever you boot, unless this feature
    is explicitly turned off with the noauto option.
13. Find out the purpose of each of the following commands:
    Shutdown is used to shutdown the system in a safe way.
    Diff is used to compare two files line by line.
    Sort is used to sort the contents of a file line by line.
    Ps (process status) is used to display/view information related to the processes running in a linux system.
    Kill is used to terminate processes manually.
    Mount is used to mount filesystems found on a device to a structure.
    Nano is a command line editor for Linux OS.
14. What are symbolic links?How do you create one using command? Symbolic/soft links are special files that point to another file similar to a shortcut in Windows alias.
    Unlike a hard link, a symbolic link contains no data in the target file. ln -s is the command to create symbolic links.
15. How would you copy a file or a directory from your system to another system on the same network? ssh command scp is used to do so. scp FILE USER@SERVER_IP:/DIRECTORY
